# Analytic_NED_Asteroid_Deflection_Model

This package evaluates an analytic formula for the &Delta; v imparted to an asteroid by a 1 or 2 keV black body source given the radius of the asteroid, the standoff distance, the Yield in x-rays, the density of the asteroid, and the fit coefficients for the 1 or 2 keV black body source (provided in the module). 
Three variations of the formula are given; the "original" form, the "corrected" form that accounts for the angle of incidence in calculating the melt depth, and a form based on an "impulse" model.
Each formula is fit to simulations of spherical asteroids of uniform composiiton illuminated by black body x-rays.

A copy of the report on the recent changes to the models from PDC 2023, [PDC2023_Managan](PDC2023_Managan.pdf), is included. 
I have also included a more detailed report from the proceedings of PDC 2021, [PDC_2021_Managan](Managan_PDC_2021.pdf). 
This report assumes that the fitting coefficients are constant.


## Getting Started

Clone the git repository to a convenient location. You can copy the Deflections_formulae.py module to your Python site-packages directory if you want it globally accessible.


### Prerequisites

The Python scripts load [NumPy](https://numpy.org) and [SciPy](https://www.scipy.org). 

## Running the example

The example script, CalcDV.py, prints out the delta-V generated by a few examples.
```
python CalcDV.py
```
It uses the preferred formula, `OriginalModel(d, Yield, Rad, den, z)`, where `d` is the standoff distance in m, `Y` is yield in kt, `Rad` is radius in m, `den` is density in g/cm^3, `z` is the set of coefficients to use, either `AB1` or `AB2` for 1 keV or 2 keV source respectively.

For completeness the other two formulae given in [PDC_2021_Managan](Managan_PDC_2021.pdf) are also included.
They are `ModifiedModel(d, Yield, Rad, den, z)` and `ImpulseModel(d, Yield, Rad, den, z)`.

## Release 2

This release adds routines that allow the fit to depend on the asteroid porosity.
The new routines are `OriginalModel_Por_errs(d, Yield, Rad, den, por, z, covariance)`, `ModifiedModel_Por_errs(d, Yield, Rad, den, por, z, covariance)`. 
The main difference from `OriginalModel` and `ModifiedModel` is that they return both the delta-V and the error on those values.
In order to do this they require the covariance matrix from the fits as well as the coefficients.
Numpy arrays can be used for `d`, `Yield`, `Rad`, `den`, `por` if they can be broadcast to the same shape.
Usually one of them is an array and the others are constants, or they are all arrays of the same length.
The coefficient `z` defaults to `AB_Si_1_2keV` and `covariance` defaults to `AB_Si_1_2keV_covariance` which are the fit for SiO2 to the average delta-V of the 1 and 2 keV simulations.
To get results for Forsterite use `AB_Fo_1_2keV` and `AB_Fo_1_2keV_covariance`.
For results based on 1 keV values use `AB_Si_1keV` and `AB_Si_1keV_covariance` and similarly for 2 keV.
The various coefficients have all been moved to the file Fit_Data.py.

## Contributing

Please read [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for details on contributing to the project, and the process for submitting pull requests to us.

## Code of Conduct

Our code of conduct is available at [Code of Conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).

## Authors

* **Robert Managan** - *Initial work*, *Release 2* - [Managan](https://people.llnl.gov/managan1)
* **Mary Burkey** - *Initial work* - [Burkey](https://people.llnl.gov/burkey1)

See also the list of [contributors](CONTRIBUTING.md) who participated in this project.

## License

This project is licensed under the BSD-3 License - see the [LICENSE.md](LICENSE.md) file for details

Unlimited Open Source - BSD 3-clause Distribution LLNL-CODE-853603

## SPDX usage

Individual files contain SPDX tags instead of the full license text.
This enables machine processing of license information based on the SPDX
License Identifiers that are available here: https://spdx.org/licenses/

Files that are licensed as BSD 3-Clause contain the following
text in the license header:

    SPDX-License-Identifier: (BSD-3-Clause)

# Copyright (c) 2025, Lawrence Livermore National Security, LLC
#
# LLNL-CODE-853603
#



